---
title: Notice of New Threat Listing for Vascular Plants
author: Martin Kean
date: 2022-02-17
tags: [ "news", "featured" ]
image: /images/cordyline-banksii.jpg
imageAlt: Cordyline Banksii
newsIntro: The conservation status of the indigenous vascular plants of Aotearoa / New Zealand were last assessed in 2017 by de Lange et al. (2018). The Department of Conservation (DOC) is currently facilitating a review of this assessment and preparatory to wish to gather information on the conservation status of indigenous vascular plant taxa of Aotearoa / New Zealand.
newsText: The New Zealand Threat Classification System (NZTCS) is a rules-based system used to assess the risk of extinction faced by organisms indigenous to that archipelago. It was established in 2002 to complement the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN’s) Red List system.
---

## Context

The New Zealand Threat Classification System (NZTCS) is a rules-based system used to assess the risk of extinction faced by organisms indigenous to that archipelago. It was established in 2002 to complement the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN’s) Red List system. Categories and criteria were defined to reflect New Zealand’s unique environments, accounting for the country’s relatively small size and diversity of ecosystems, and the large number of taxa with naturally restricted ranges and/or small population sizes. The NZTCS is administered by DOC on behalf of all New Zealanders. It is used by members of the public and organisations (e.g. MfE, MPI, StatsNZ) throughout New Zealand. NZTCS assessments underpin biodiversity management priorities for DOC, Local Government, other agencies and communities who participate in conservation.

NZTCS species group assessments are reviewed approximatively every five years by a panel of experts. Vascular plants were last assessed in 2017 (de Lange et al. 2018). The review of that assessment is scheduled for mid-October 2022. In preparation for this review, we are enquiring for information to support the panel decision.

## What information is required

Assessments follow the NZTCS manual 2008, the supplement 2021 and amendment 2021 which can be downloaded on the DOC website. The full list of species to be re-assessed can be downloaded on the [NZTCS website](https://nztcs.org.nz/reports/38).

We are looking for estimates of threats, population size and trend data that you might like to offer, for native species that occur in your region where your Society has some up-to-date knowledge and a regional overview of those species:

Identified threats to the species (e.g. diseases, predation from herbivores).
population size is either the number of mature individuals (reproducing) or the area of occupancy (in ha).
population trend is the past trend for as long a period as possible and the future predicted trend over three generations or 10 years whichever is the longest.
We would like to obtain detailed information particularly for species that:

have been assessed nationally Threatened or At Risk in the past
are likely to have a change of conservation status because of new or increasing threats.
Information can be providing using the pre-formatted template (Word document). Alternatively, the information can also be collated in an Excel spread sheet.

We would like to receive this information before **9 September 2022**.